USER MANUAL:

Place the .fasta file (and query file)into the .../n10203478Assignment/DNA/bin/Debug folder.
Output files from the program will also be saved into the .../n10203478Assignment/DNA/bin/Debug folder.

To build: Open the DNA.sln file which can be found in Assignment/Assignment1, and build by either clicking 'Build' or holding down keys CTRL+SHIFT+B.

To run the program from the command line:
Enter:
	cd .../n10203478Assignment/DNA/bin/Debug 
	DNA.exe [Input search query here]

There are 6 search levels:

Level 1:	Sequential access using a starting position in the file. 
		Example: Search16s -level1 filename.fasta 273 10 					
		Example: Search16s -level1 16S.fasta 273 N > myfile.fasta 

			Search16s is the program name, -level1 is a flag indicating the type of search required, filename.fasta is the fasta file name to read from, 
			273 is the line number to start the output from, and 10 is the number of sequences that the program should output.
			The program will capture the output in a file called myfile.fasta in the current directory. N is the number of sequences to output.

Level 2: 	Sequential access to a specific sequence by sequence-id.
		Example: Search16s -level2 16S.fasta NR_115365.1

			The program will respond by displaying to the console the respective sequence lines.

Level 3: 	Sequential access to find a set of sequence-ids given in a query file, and writing the output to a specified result file.
		Example: Search16s -level3 16S.fasta query.txt results.txt

			Query filename – in the example it is query.txt – is specified on the command line. The
			file contains a set of sequence-ids. The program writes out all matching sequences to the
			specified results file (not to the console). 

Level 4: 	Indexed file access, implementing direct access to sequences.
		Example: IndexSequence16s 16S.fasta 16S.index
		
			Two file names are specified, the fasta file name and the index file name. 
			The program creates a sequenceid index to the fasta file. The index supports direct access to sequences, by sequenceid. 
			Specifically, the program creates an index file. Each line consists of a sequenceid and file-offset.

		Example: Search16s -level4 16S.fasta 16S.index query.txt results.txt
			
			The sequences are then read from the fasta file using direct access rather than a sequential scan by using the file offsets from the index.
	
Level 5: 	Search for an exact match of a DNA query string.
		Example: Search16s -level5 16S.fasta CTGGTACGGTCAACTTGCTCTAAG

			All matching sequence ids are displayed to the console.

Level 6: 	Search for a sequence meta-data containing a given word
		Example: Search16s -level6 16S.fasta Streptomyces

			All matching sequence ids are displayed to the console. The sequence ids corresponding to the sequence which contains the given word are displayed.


Level 7: 	Search for a sequence containing wild cards.
		Example: Search16s -level7 16S.fasta ACTG*GTAC*CA
			
			A “*” stands for any number of characters in the same position.
			All matching sequence ids are displayed to the console. The sequence ids corresponding to the sequence which contains the given word are displayed.


			 